# Grant Process and Reflection

I must admit that I was very intimidated by the Grant Project at first. However, I was relieved to learn that we were able to work in pairs. At first my partner and I had no idea where to start until we began to think of what fields of the humanities interested us. We both have a fascination with art and art history and I had recently developed an interest in Virtual Reality (VR) so we thought it would be perfect to combine the two. 

Our project is a 3-Dimensional recreation of Georges Seurat's _A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte_ to be viewed using a VR headset. The idea is that every aspect of the painting (the people, animals, trees, boats, etc), as well as the environment, is made into a 3D model so that the viewer can walk around and feel like they are living in the painting.  We thought it would be a great way to modernize art history and make it more accessible and enjoyable for younger audiences. While we only plan to recreate one painting into a virtual environment, we hope to inspire other people to do the same with their favorite works of art. 

The concept of the project has evolved significantly as we have worked with it more. We originally planned to just have the 3D models and the environment be painting with solid colors and be completely stationary. However, we decided that we wanted to paint a texture over the whole environment that would mimic the pointillistic style of Seurat to make it more authentic to the painting. We also wanted to give movement to the environment by having the water, the rowers in the boats, the animals, the leaves of the trees, and the people be animated without shifting from their places in the painting. Lastly, we wanted to add ambience to it with music, laughter, animal sounds, leaves rustling, water flowing, etc. to give a full experience to the viewer. 
